[Music]
he needs to sedate the elephant so that
the snail can be safely removed guys we
are ready we go have the elephant this
is good I'm happy now the vets here Fred
worked alongside a spotter plane to
locate the injured boo
[Music]
he wants to dart it quickly to stop it
from suffering
[Music]
okay so uh the French managed to buy the
dark and elephants taken off through the
piece we're just going to try and look
into
[Music]
choppers on the ground
jeez that's really shocking
I mean to myself you're black
on his side
the Bulls breathing is labored we have
to move fast to remove the snare
poachers have simply used winch cable
from a truck
[Music]
a snare like this is cheap to make it
could have caught any of Weaver's
farmers and it with Robert to me a
possible profit the reason that this
animal has endured his unimaginable pain
is for this his tusks defies belief how
cruel people can be how senseless this
whole thing is because so much for an
ornament simply for an ornament he's
treated with a special play they'll help
heal the wound what do you think Fred
you think he's you think it'll survive
ah yes the guy's body condition is good
he was walking and also to getting to
another bad level but it's still ok to
survive you see the bone is not involved
so we hate our bodies intact
ok so when the body is in touch the soft
tissue can easily really repair recovery
and finally the wound is treated with an
antibiotic spray all that remains is to
wake him up
well my word hey fella okay these
touch-me-not balsam have sprung up to
cover the woodland floor
each night the leaves go limp as the
balsam exudes any excess moisture in the
waterlogged soils of the Lake District
this is a handy adaptation
[Music]
soon their blues unfurl
as the petals of these strange shaped
flowers drop off seed pots begin to form
[Music]
these pots are the favorite food of the
netted carpet moth caterpillar although
it was once thought to be extinct
the netted carpet moth survives here in
the Lake District its last remaining
stronghold touch-me-not balsam is their
only source of food
[Music]
these plants have a surprise in store
their seed heads explode
it's how they became known as
touch-me-not but nobody told the
caterpillars this
[Music]
the caterpillars have no warning when
these little bombs go off it's not just
seeds that get hurled across the forest
floor
[Music]
[Applause]
kenia famous for its big cats the
supreme hunters
[Music]
cheaters specialize in hunting at speed
they're fast they're fragile creatures
are built to sprint after small prey
they don't have the strength or weight
of a lion to bring down larger animals
this male is different he doesn't hunt
alone he's learned that there is
strength in numbers
[Music]
but here there are not just two but
three cheetahs a band of brothers
[Music]
they have changed their tactics and by
doing so have taken their prey by
surprise they have learned that working
together they can bring down large prey
[Music]
an ostrich a bird that towers over a
cheetah and is more than twice as heavy
it can't fly to escape danger but it can
lash out with a deadly kick a female
unaware as yet of any danger even with
three of them this is still highly risky
if one gets injured the other two
couldn't hope to tackle such large prey
[Music]
on the other hand if they get it right
the rewards are huge the male has
spotted one of the brothers but only one
it's not too worried
[Music]
then suddenly there are three
the female is slower to realize the
danger and the Cheetahs switched hands
[Music]
it takes the combined effort and weight
of all three brothers to bring down this
powerful birth even now the ostrich
could land a fatal kick
[Music]
so far the brothers are winning
ostriches have yet to find a way to foil
such things even the river normally a
lifeline for the animals has almost
disappeared yet the mud soup that
remains could be concealing a free lunch
if only the leopards can figure out what
it is and how to get it are these weird
apparitions something to fear or a
harmless and much-needed source of food
[Music]
the mother has probably never seen a
live catfish before
[Music]
eventually she loses courage perhaps a
son will be bolder
he has spotted some fish of his own when
they stopped moving though he seems not
to know where they've gone it's the
elephant that finally reveals them you
could almost see like a light bulb going
on and literally right off to the
elephant pull down you went straight in
it was like playing with soap in the
shower he just sort of thumb balled
around didn't know what to do there's
mud being splattered on his body and on
his face
finally he actually bettered which gave
him a grip on it
I just remember that expression when you
stood up
he was so proud of his achievement he
was quite stoked
[Music]
even when more salons arrive they can't
seem to break down the sardines
coordinated defenses
[Music]
with a shoal this big the sea lions need
to isolate a smaller more manageable
human fish
[Music]
but with so few predators the fish still
have the advantage
[Music]
[Applause]
all the sea lions can do is keep the
sardines at the surface and wait for
others to join them
[Music]
tuna
their arrival changes everything
[Music]
[Applause]
tuner attacked from below cutting off
the sardines escape route down to deep
water next to appear shearwaters
excellent fliers but also surprising the
agile underwater with so many predators
attacking from all sides the advantage
starts to shift away from the sardines
[Music]
[Applause]
as the fish pack ever tighter they're
showing strategy now makes it easier for
the hunters
[Music]
[Applause]
copper sharks they've scented blood in
the water
[Music]
surprisingly perhaps the Predators never
attack one another they work together to
corral the ball of fish taking turns to
grab a mouse
[Applause]
common dolphins
as the show gets ever smaller each
sardine scrambles desperately to hide in
the middle but now there's no escape
[Music]
[Applause]
a Buddhist whale finishes off the feast
tonnes of sardines devoured in less than
an hour
a mudskipper a fish that spends most of
its life out of the sea it can walk on
land and breathe air its life is very
different from that of most fish a fish
out of water maybe but they thrive here
in Japan so what's made this upheaval
worthwhile the answer lies in the mud
as the tide retreats it exposes mud
flaps sunlight hits the rich silt and
tiny plants and animals flourish there
all food for a mudskipper but life on
land is not without problems it's hard
work to find a mate jumping high above
the mud will get you noticed
[Music]
with eyes perched on the top of their
heads the mudskippers keep a lookout for
both friend and foe and males fight
those who intrude on their territory
[Applause]
they must also take care not to dry out
in the Sun rolling in the Oilers keeps
the skin cool and moist for this smaller
species a better option is to retreat
underground
so he digs himself a tunnel down into
the mud
[Music]
his heap of spoil is an indication of
the extent of his excavations with the
tide flooding the tunnel twice a day
maintenance is a real burden
her eyes and ears that were closed for
the first two weeks of her life are now
opening and with this comes a whole new
world of sensory stimulation
[Music]
she uses her vision to move around but
does she see the world the same way we
do well dogs are colorblind but that
doesn't mean that everything is black
and white she does see color but mostly
just blues and yellows it's because she
only has two types of color receptors
compared to humans who have three and
it's also why your dog will often ignore
an orange toy in the green grass as
those colors look the same to them
better to give them something blue but
it's when things are moving that her
vision comes into its own dog's eyes
process what they see more quickly than
we do it's almost like they see in slow
motion
that's why they're always in the right
place to catch the frisbee
adults hearing is also superhuman they
can hear things four times further away
and twice as high-pitched as we can it's
why we can't hear dog whistles but it
also means they can hear the hum of
Lights and even the pulsing sound of a
quartz crystal in a digital clock but
there's one sense she'll use more than
any other her sense of smell a dog's
brain is one-tenth the size of ours but
the part that controls smell is 40 times
larger they have up to 300 million scent
glands in their nose compared to our
five million in this tree there is one
of the most extraordinary plant
predators it's one animal that I don't
need to sneak up on oh this
extraordinary creature is half blind
half deaf and this is just about as fast
as it can move that's what's gonna
happen to you if you live on nothing but
leaves it's a slice it's not exactly an
enthusiastic leaf eater a couple of
half-hearted chews and the leaves go
straight down to its stomach leaves
however are not easily digested the
sleds technique is to give them time
then eventually this mobile compost heap
pulls itself together and starts on a
long and dangerous journey this is a
very unusual sight a sloth in a hurry it
wants to defecate and the only place
it's happy doing that oddly enough is
down on the ground
it only does it about once a week but
why does it come down to the ground to
do it and why does it nearly always
choose to do so in exactly the same
place
whatever the reason it must be very
important for a sloth on the ground is
almost helpless any predator could
attack it and it doesn't have the speed
to escape why it comes down in this way
is a mystery
nobody knows now it's finished and the
leaves are not very nutritious
the slows way of compensating for that
is not to eat more but to do less it's
claws hook over the branches so that the
sloth can hang without any effort of its
muscles which have been reduced to thin
ribbons and to save energy it spends
most of its time hanging around half
asleep in the treetops so with very
little muscle and a reaction time only a
quarter as fast as ours how does a sloth
today compared with our day in the time
it takes me to write a few letters the
studies just about manages to groom
itself while we have our lunch
the stove's nibbles a few leaves and
then as we film the sequence for the
series which time
[Music]
food is so hard to find this far north
that a wolf pack must search hundreds of
square kilometers if it's to be
successful and success means raising the
next generation to do that here the
wolves must work together so the young
are raised not only by their parents but
by their aunts and uncles as well
[Music]
together they try to ensure that each
puck reaches near adult size before the
snow returns the growing pup needs more
than just a few leverets the Wolves need
bigger prey and to catch that they must
hunt as a pack
[Music]
adult Harris may be easy to spot but
they're far from easy to catch
they run at 60 kilometres an hour
[Music]
to catch one the Wolves work as a team
one of them gets close enough to fight
the hares tail
but a hair can change direction in an
instant
[Music]
if it can continue to sidestep and
gingka it may ultimately outlast them
[Music]
finally it gets away
for the next hair the whole pack gives
chase
[Music]
now numbers count the need moves keep up
the pace others run on either side so
the hare can't change direction
a tiny meal for the whole pack for
kangaroos the greatest challenges come
from within their own society for a male
there's only really one key lesson to
learn in his life they get to the top he
must become a fighter
the battles are so brutal that males
need years of training to prepare the
effort is worth it because a champion
fighter wins privileged access to the
females this meadow is a boot camp for
aspiring boxers training starts as soon
as a youngster is out of the pouch its
mother is a handy opponent for a young
Joey learning the basics
but he soon off in search of more
sparring partners the other grown-ups
are not so tolerant of this lightweight
[Music]
this male alone
rules the meadow
[Music]
he stands eight feet tall his muscles
hardened by years of sparring
today a challenger for his title has
come forward full-blown fights are so
dangerous they're not entered into
lightly
but when two males square up it's time
to clear the arena
anything goes in these power struggles I
doubting is entirely within the rules
so is kicking below the belt
the dominant male skill is already
telling
[Music]
the stakes are high they risk broken
bones and internal injuries
certainly
it's all over the champion has beaten
off the Challenger at least for now
[Music]